When you look at the paths produced by PRM and RRT,
thereby no means optimal and can be quite jerky.
Instead of using these paths directly,
some post-processing can be applied to smooth out the paths and improve the results.
One simple algorithm that can be used,
is often referred to as a path shortcutter.
It looks for ways to shorten the resulting path,
by connecting two non-neighboring nodes together.
If it is able to find a pair of nodes whose edge is collision free,
then the original path between the two nodes is replaced with the shortcut edge.
If this process is successful,
then a search algorithm like A star search can
be applied to find the path from start to goal.
The resultant path may not be optimal,
but it proves that moving from start to goal, is feasible.